README.md, before:

# Dart Sass for Rails

[Sass](https://sass-lang.com) is a stylesheet language that’s compiled to CSS. It allows you to use variables, nested rules, mixins, functions, and more, all with a fully CSS-compatible syntax.

This gem wraps [the standalone executable version](https://github.com/sass/dart-sass/releases) of the Dart version of Sass. These executables are platform specific, but included in this gem are the ones for macOS, Linux, and Windows. The Linux and Windows versions are the ones for 64-bit, and the macOS version is compiled for Intel but will run on ARM as well.

The installer will create your default Sass input file in `app/assets/stylesheets/application.scss`. This is where you should import all the style files to be compiled [using the @use rule](https://sass-lang.com/documentation/at-rules/use). When you run `rails dartsass:build`, this input file will be used to generate the output in `app/assets/builds/application.css`. That's the output CSS that you'll include in your app. The load path for Sass is automatically configured to be `app/assets/stylesheets`.

If you need to configure the build process – beyond configuring the build files – you can run `bundle exec dartsass` to access the platform-specific executable, and give it your own build options.

When you're developing your application, you want to run Dart Sass in watch mode, so changes are automatically reflected in the generated CSS output. You can do this either by running `rails dartsass:watch` as a separate process, or by running `./bin/dev` which uses [foreman](https://github.com/ddollar/foreman) to starts both the Dart Sass watch process and the rails server in development mode.


## Installation

1. Run `./bin/bundle add dartsass-rails`
2. Run `./bin/rails dartsass:install`


## Building in production

The `dartsass:build` is automatically attached to `assets:precompile`, so before the asset pipeline digests the files, the Dart Sass output will be generated.

## Configuring builds

By default, only `app/assets/stylesheets/application.scss` will be built. If you'd like to change the path of this stylesheet, add additional entry points, or customize the name of the built file, use the `Rails.application.config.dartsass.builds` configuration hash.


```
# config/initializers/dartsass.rb
Rails.application.config.dartsass.builds = {
  "app/index.sass"  => "app.css",
  "site.scss"       => "site.css"
}
```

The hash key is the relative path to a Sass file in `app/assets/stylesheets/` and the hash value will be the name of the file output to `app/assets/builds/`.

## Importing assets from gems
`dartsass:build` includes application [assets paths](https://guides.rubyonrails.org/asset_pipeline.html#search-paths) as Sass [load paths](https://sass-lang.com/documentation/at-rules/use#load-paths). Assuming the gem has made assets visible to the Rails application, no additional configuration is required to use them.


## Version

Dart Sass 1.49.0


## License

Dart Sass for Rails is released under the [MIT License](https://opensource.org/licenses/MIT).
Sass is released under the [MIT License](https://opensource.org/licenses/MIT).

Commit message:

Add instructions how to migrate from sass-rails

README.md, after:

# Dart Sass for Rails

[Sass](https://sass-lang.com) is a stylesheet language that’s compiled to CSS. It allows you to use variables, nested rules, mixins, functions, and more, all with a fully CSS-compatible syntax.

This gem wraps [the standalone executable version](https://github.com/sass/dart-sass/releases) of the Dart version of Sass. These executables are platform specific, but included in this gem are the ones for macOS, Linux, and Windows. The Linux and Windows versions are the ones for 64-bit, and the macOS version is compiled for Intel but will run on ARM as well.

The installer will create your default Sass input file in `app/assets/stylesheets/application.scss`. This is where you should import all the style files to be compiled [using the @use rule](https://sass-lang.com/documentation/at-rules/use). When you run `rails dartsass:build`, this input file will be used to generate the output in `app/assets/builds/application.css`. That's the output CSS that you'll include in your app. The load path for Sass is automatically configured to be `app/assets/stylesheets`.

If you need to configure the build process – beyond configuring the build files – you can run `bundle exec dartsass` to access the platform-specific executable, and give it your own build options.

When you're developing your application, you want to run Dart Sass in watch mode, so changes are automatically reflected in the generated CSS output. You can do this either by running `rails dartsass:watch` as a separate process, or by running `./bin/dev` which uses [foreman](https://github.com/ddollar/foreman) to starts both the Dart Sass watch process and the rails server in development mode.


## Installation

1. Run `./bin/bundle add dartsass-rails`
2. Run `./bin/rails dartsass:install`

## Building in production

The `dartsass:build` is automatically attached to `assets:precompile`, so before the asset pipeline digests the files, the Dart Sass output will be generated.

## Configuring builds

By default, only `app/assets/stylesheets/application.scss` will be built. If you'd like to change the path of this stylesheet, add additional entry points, or customize the name of the built file, use the `Rails.application.config.dartsass.builds` configuration hash.


```
# config/initializers/dartsass.rb
Rails.application.config.dartsass.builds = {
  "app/index.sass"  => "app.css",
  "site.scss"       => "site.css"
}
```

The hash key is the relative path to a Sass file in `app/assets/stylesheets/` and the hash value will be the name of the file output to `app/assets/builds/`.

## Importing assets from gems
`dartsass:build` includes application [assets paths](https://guides.rubyonrails.org/asset_pipeline.html#search-paths) as Sass [load paths](https://sass-lang.com/documentation/at-rules/use#load-paths). Assuming the gem has made assets visible to the Rails application, no additional configuration is required to use them.

## Migrating from sass-rails

If you're migrating from [sass-rails](https://github.com/rails/sass-rails)
(applies to [sassc-rails](https://github.com/sass/sassc-rails) as well)
and want to switch to dartsass-rails, follow these instructions below:

1. Remove the sass-rails gem from the Gemfile by running

    ```
    ./bin/bundle remove sass-rails
    ```

1. Install dartsass-rails by following the
    [Installation](#installation) instructions above

1. Remove any references to Sass files from the Sprockets manifest file:
    `app/assets/config/manifest.js`

1. In your continues integration pipeline, before running any tests that
    interacts with the browser, make sure to build the Sass files by running:

    ```
    bundle exec rails dartsass:build
    ```

## Version

Dart Sass 1.49.0


## License

Dart Sass for Rails is released under the [MIT License](https://opensource.org/licenses/MIT).
Sass is released under the [MIT License](https://opensource.org/licenses/MIT).
